Table of Contents
컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴
I.  ) The Game Menu
II. ) The Quick Menu (Arrow Menu)
III.) The Config Menu
IV. ) The Cheat Menu
V.  ) The MultiPlay Menu
VI. ) The Misc Menu

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note : If any windows exists in the GUI field, pressing ESC always closes
       the top-most window
Note : Pressing ESC when no window is active is equivalent to RUN.  It will
       not function if no game is loaded

Notes on the filename box where you can manually type in the filename:
  - Typing text into the box would automatically seek to the closest
    matching filename in the box where the file selection cursor is located
  - When you press enter with text in the box without any '\' or ':' in the
    filename, ZSNES will first look for a directory matching the text and
    changes its directory if one is found.  Otherwise, it will load the
    current file or directory highlighted by the selection cursor.
  - You can type in the full filename or directory including path
    (eg. d:\games\mario.smc) or the drive name (eg. d:)

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

---------------------
- I.) The Game Menu -
---------------------

Load :
  Perform : Load File and Run
  Usage   :
     Loading a File :
        You can move through the list using either the mouse or the
        keyboard.  The keys for the keyboard are :
          Up/Down - Move Up/Down through the list
          Left/Right - Switch between the File and Directory Window
          PageUp/PageDown/Home/End - Move through the list in larger
            increments
          A .. Z, \, : - Enters filename/directory into the load box
          Enter - Load File or Change Directory (depending on which
            window you are in)
     Display Type :
        You can select from either Normal 8.3 file format (Default),
        Snes Header name, and Win95 long filename format.
        Note : Win95 long filename format will not work in Pure DOS.
               It will crash when using dosemu in Linux
        Note : Snes Header Display will sometimes display garbled Lines.
               This is normal since some images don't have a proper
               name in the header or the header is not in english.
               Whenever ZSNES detects a blank header name, it uses
               the filename instead.
               Also note that .ZIP files will not display the header name.
               It's not efficient for the program to unzip every zip file
               in the directory just to get the header names.
     Show all Extensions : This will force the GUI to show
        all of the file extensions instead of the default (.SMC,.SFC,...)

Run :
  Perform : Runs the game

Reset :
  Perform : Resets the game, but asks user for confirmation first

Save State :
  Perform : Saves the state (Equivalent to default F2), but asks
            user for confirmation first
Load State :
  Perform : Loads the state (Equivalent to default F4), but asks
            user for confirmation first

Pick State :
  Perform : Allows user to select the state position to use
            (Equivalent to default F3)

Quit :
  Perform : Quits ZSNES

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

-----------------------------------------------
- II.) The Quick Menu (Displayed as an Arrow) -
-----------------------------------------------

Perform : Allows the user to quickly select the last 10 games loaded off
          the GUI.  Also allows the user to freeze/clear the list.

Tip : You can create a favorites list by first clearing the list then
      loading up all the games (last game loaded will be at the top) and
      turning freeze on.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

-------------------------
- III.) The Config Menu -
-------------------------

Input #1-#5 :
   Perform : Allows user to select the input device and control
             keys for each player
   Usage   :
      Selecting an Input Device :
        Using your mouse, move through the list of input devices
           until the device of your choice is highlighted.  From
           there, click on SET and the input device you selected
           should appear after CDV: (CDV = Current Device)
        Changing default keys :
           Click on the key which you want to change using your
           mouse and then press the key or joystick button/pad
           which you want to change it to.  Pressing ESC disables
           the game key.
        Joystick 209h usage :
           Some dual joystick cards support dual joystick ports
           (port 201h and 209h) which allows for 2 6-button joysticks
           or 2 different types of joysticks (sidewinder and a
           standard joystick).  If you have one of these, check
           the 'Use joystick port 209h' box.  If you do not have
           a dual joystick/dual port card and if you check the box,
           then the joystick will not work.

Options :
  Perform : Allows the user to select some in-game options
  Usage :
     Auto Frame Rate - Enables Auto Frame Rate
     Frame Skip - (Shown when Auto Frame Rate is disabled)
       Sets the constant frame skip value used when a game plays
     Max Frame Skip - (Shown when Auto Frame Rate is enabled)
       Sets the maximum allowable frame skip in auto framerate mode
     New Gfx Engine - Enables/Disables the New Graphics engine
       in 256 color modes or 320x240x65536 mode
     VSync - Enables vertical sync wait to reduce sheering of the
       screen.  Requires a very fast computer.
     MMX Copy - Enables MMX Copying routines for a slight speed
       increase (MMX processors only)
     Use Pl1/2 as Pl3/4 - Allows the user to use 2 devices for 1 player
       such as the keyboard and the joystick. (set keyboard as input
       device 1 and joystick as input device 3).  This, however, disables
       multitap support
     Sidewinder Fix - Click this when your sidewinder doesn't work
       after disabling the sidewinder profiler and pressed the
       mode button twice
     FPS at Start - Checking this would make the FPS appear whenever
       you start ZSNES
     Use 30Hz for Turbo - When activated, Turbo will change at 30hz NTSC
       or 25hz PAL.  Otherwise, Turbo will change at 60hz NTSC or 50hz PAL
     Enable Game Clock - Enabling this will show the system clock on-screen
     Toggled Fast Fwd - Checking this will change the way how the fast forward
       button functions.  Having it checked will cause it to act as a switch
       and having it unchecked will cause it to act as a push button.
     SRam Check+Save - This will enable automatic Save Ram write detection and
       save the sram (.srm) to disk approximately 10 seconds after.
     Old Gfx Mode 2 - This will enable the Old Gfx Engine Mode 2 which fixes
       many transparency bugs that currently plagues ZSNES in the current
       engine, however, it also creates some new ones.  This mode can be
       slower at times so it's recommended that you only turn it on when
       you need it.
     Start at Latest Save - Checking this will automatically set the
       save state pointer (F3 Menu) to the most recently saved location
       whenever you load a rom image.
     Auto State Save/Load - Enabling this will allow ZSNES to automatically
       re-load the state whenever you return back to the game after a
       proper exit.
     Don't Save Current Path - This will prevent ZSNES from changing the
       current start-up game path in the configuration.  You can
       access this in Config->Options.
     Disable Sound CPU Emu - Selecting this would disable the SPC700 chip
       that controls the sound.  Using this would speed up emulation,
       but the drawback is that you won't have sound and the gane
       compatibility rate would be lower.
Add-ons:
  Perform : Changes the current special input selected for the game
  Usage :
    None - Uses the regular snes controllers
    SNES Mouse at Port #1 - Emulates the SNES mouse at controller port #1
    SNES Mouse at Port #2 - Emulates the SNES mouse at controller port #2
    Super Scope - Emulates the SNES Super Scope
    Lethal Enforcer Gun - Simulates the mouse movements for Lethal
      Enforcers 1

Video :
  Perform : Changes the current video mode and sets some options
  Usage :
    Changing the video mode - Use the mouse to select the video mode
      and click 'SET'.  When the video mode changes and if the result
      doesn't look right, wait for 10 seconds without pressing any key
      or button and the display will return to the previous one.
    Scanlines - Only available in 256x256x256 and VESA2 640x480 modes.
      This mode adds a blank line in between every line to produce
      a scanline effect similar, if not exact, to a TV.
    Eagle Engine - Only available in VESA2 320x240x256.  Setting
      this would enable the Eagle Engine designed by Dirk Stevens
      which basically locates 3 similar colored pixels together
      and places a small dot in between to smooth out some graphics.
    Interpolation - Only available in VESA2 640x480x65536.  Setting
      this enable interpolation which basically blends all the
      inbetween colors to produce a blurry effect.  However, this
      slows down emulation.
    Full Screen - Only available in VESA2 320x240 and 640x480 modes.
      Setting this would scale the image to fit the screen.  This,
      however, slows down emulation.
    Small Screen - Only available in VESA2 640x480 modes.  Setting
      this would display the image in a small, centered screen.  This
      greatly improves performance in 640x480 modes.
    50% Scanlines - Only available in 640x480x65536 video mode.  This
      will enable scanline mode except that each line is 50% darker than
      the line above it.
    25% Scanlines - Only available in 640x480x65536 video mode.  This
      will enable scanline mode except that each line is 25% darker than
      the line above it.
    2xSaI Engine - Setting this would enable Kreed's 2x Scale Advanced
      Interpolation engine.
    Super Eagle - Setting this would enable Kreed's Super Eagle engine.
    Super 2xSaI Engine - Setting this would enable Kreed's Super 2x Scale
      Advanced Interpolation engine.  This mode would require a lot of
      cpu power since it is written in C.
    Triple Buffering - This will enable Triple Buffering if it is available
      on your VESA drivers/Video Card.  If it isn't available, then Zsnes
      will use simulated Triple Buffering which is slower, but still does
      the job.  Note that Triple Buffering will not work with 2xSaI/Super
      Eagle.
    Hi-resolution Mode 7 - Enabling this would activate high resolution
      mode 7 whenever standard mode 7 is used within a game.  This mode
      is only available in video modes that support it.

Sound :
  Perform : Allows user to change the sound configurations of ZSNES
  Usage :
     Enable Sound - Setting this turns on the sound
     Stereo Sound - Enables Stereo Sound (Noticably slower though unless
       you have a fast cpu)
     Sound Rate - To change the sound rate, just click on the box
       containing the value to rotate through all the
       possible values.
     Volume Level - To change, just slide the bar
     Disable Noise Sim. (Disable Noise Simulation) - Setting this will
       disable the noise filter which corrects many sound effects in
       certain games, but will also ruin some others.
     Surround Sound - Enables simulated 2 speaker surround sound
     Sound Interpolation - Enables Sound Interpolation which smoothes out
       the wave forms of lower frequency sounds
     Reverse Stereo - This function swaps the L & R volume levels
       in stereo mode
     Low Pass Filter - The Low Pass Filter, when enabled, will produce
       better bass in certain sound effects.  However, the side effect
       is that the sound will overall be more muffled.
     Cubic Spline Interp - If this is checked, it will use Cubic Spline
       Interpolation for the sound.  Otherwise, it will use Gaussian
       Interpolation.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

-----------------------
- IV.) The Cheat Menu -
-----------------------

Add Code :
  Perform : Enter Cheat Code Window and Set the keyboard cursor
            on the cheat code entry box
  Usage : Type in the code in either Game Genie, Pro Action Replay, or
          Gold Finger format, press enter, then enter the description.
          Note : Be sure to include the '-' when entering Game Genie codes
  Note : You can also quickly modify the value of the currently selected
         cheat code (in the browse window) by typing a 2 digit hex number
         in the cheat code enter space

Cheat Code Reflector - What this feature does is that it allows a value
  of one cheat code to be mirrored from a value of another cheat code.  To
  enable this option, type an 'R' at the end of any cheat code as the
  destination, then type another cheat code (Without the 'R') as the source.
  For example, if you want address 7E1000 to reflect the value at address
  7F2000 (Whatever value written to 7E2000 from the game will also be
  written to 7E1000), enter cheat code 7E1000FFR, then cheat code
  7F2000FF (where FF can be any value).

Browse :
  Perform : Enter Cheat Code Window and Set the keyboard cursor at the
            browse box
  Usage : Move through the list using either the mouse or keyboard and
          select the cheat code you want to modify.  Then click on the
          buttons to the right or type in the key of the first letter
          of the action.
          Actions :
            Toggle - Turns a cheat code on or off
            Remove - Deletes the cheat code off the list
            Save - Saves the current list into a .cht file which will
              be located in the save directory
            Load - Loads a previously saved list
            Fix - Clicking this fixes some cheat codes that don't work,
              but it will not always work
          You can also toggle a cheat code on or off by double clicking on
            them.

Search :
  Perform : Allows you to search for values in memory such as life, score,
            etc. and allows you to change their values to your own preferred
            choice.
  Usage :
       Select Size : You can choose what data size to search for.  If you
         know the numerical values of the data you're going to select,
         select the smallest number range that fits the data values.
         (eg.  If you know the value cannot go higher than 50000, then
         select 2 BYTES (0..65535) instead of 3 BYTES (0..16777215)).
         Sometimes, you don't know the numerical value (in the case of
         life bars) and you'd have to guess the size.
       Select Format : DEC (Decimal, 0 .. 9), HEX (Hexadecimal, 0 .. F)
         Most of the time, it's recommended that you'd use decimal, although
         there are some cases that the values in memory are sometimes stored
         as hex.
       Search Type :
         Exact Value Search - In this mode, you have to enter the exact
           numerical value that you want to search for.  Such as if you
           have 3 lives left, then search for the value 3.  The cheat
           search engine also looks for value - 1 since even if a game
           tells you that you have 3 lives left, it stores the value as
           2 in memory.
         Comparitive Search - In this mode, you select whether the value
           is less than, greater than, equal to, or not equal to the
           previous value.  Such as if you have a life bar and if the life
           bar suddenly goes down, go back to the cheat search engine and
           select less than to search for any value that has been decreased.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

------------------------
- V.) The NetPlay Menu -
------------------------

Modem Mode :

NOTE #1 : DOS Compatible modem is REQUIRED!
       If you don't know your modem settings and you're in win95/98, go to
       Control Panel -> System -> Device Manager -> Modem and select
       your modem.  Then click on your resources tab and the settings should
       be there.

  1.) Dial Menu     - Allows you to enter the phone number to dial and then
                      dials and connects
  2.) Wait for Ring - Waits for ring
  3.) Config Modem  - Allows you to configure your modem :
                        ComPort, IRQ, Baudrate - Sets your modem settings
                        Use Fossil Driver - Set this option if you want
                          ZSNES to use your a fossil driver.  If you don't
                          know what a fossil driver is, just leave this
                          option unchecked and pretend it doesn't exist.
  4.) Manual        - Allows you to connect manually through the terminal.
                      However, if both remote and local users select manual,
                      the player numbers will not be assigned.

IPX :

  IPX mode currently connects at the first remote connection it detects.
  This will probabily change in the future if there is a demand.

Chat Mode :

  Latency - The lower the number, the better the control response time.
            But setting it too low can cause a lot of frame skip problems.
            This value should vary depending on the traffic of the connection
            you are using.  A value of 2 or 3 is recommended for modem.  The
            value for IPX varies.  Latency is basically the amount of time
            between a user input and that input being affected in the actual
            game.  The delay should be higher than the time it takes for data
            to move from one end to the other. Latency value of 1 is
            equivalent to 1/30th of a second on NTSC games or 1/25th of a
            second on PAL games.
  Player # boxes - This will allow you to select up to a 5 player multiplayer
            game.  Anything that is checked will be controlled locally
            starting from player 1 as the lowest checked player.  Anything
            marked with an X will be controlled remotely.
            For example, if players 2,3,5 are checked and 1,4 are X'ed :
              local player 1 will control player 2
              local player 2 will control player 3
              local player 3 will control player 5
              remote player 1 will control player 1
              remote player 2 will control player 4

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

----------------------
- VI.) The Misc Menu -
----------------------

Game Keys :
  Perform : Allows user to change the game keys to their own preference
  Usage :
     Click on the key which you want to change using your
     mouse and then press the key or joystick button/pad
     which you want to change it to.  Pressing ESC disables
     the key.

GUI Options :
  Perform : Allows the user to customize some of the GUI
  Usage :
     Mouse Wrap - Allows the mouse pointer to wrap at the borders of the
                  screen
     Mouse Shadow - Disables/Enables the Mouse Shadow
     Keep Menu Positions - When enabled, re-entering the GUI from the
                  game does not automatically enter the Load Menu, but
                  the previous menu which you were on when you last exit
                  the GUI
     Save Window Positions - When enabled, the GUI doesn't reset the locations
                  of the windows when you exit/enter the GUI
     Click Enters/Exits GUI - When enabled, it allows the right mouse button
                  to automatically run and exit the game to the GUI.  This
                  however, slows down emulation by a bit since it has to
                  check the mouse button status once in a while.  In the
                  windows port, the right click button won't return back
                  to the game.
     Use JoyPad1 to Control - When enabled, it allows Player 1's device
                  to be used to move through the GUI.  This is mainly used
                  if you want to use your joystick in the GUI.  The equivalent
                  SNES keys to the Keyboard keys are :

                  SNES ControlPad = Move
                  SNES A = Enter
                  SNES B = ESC
                  SNES L = PageUp
                  SNES R = PageDown
     Enable Water Effect - Enables the water effect in the GUI background
     Enable Snow Effect  - Enables the snow effect in the GUI background

Key Comb. (Key Combination Editor) :
  Perform : Allows you to specify certain keyboard combination routines
    with a single keystroke/joystick button press.
  Usage :
    Description - Allows you type in the description of the combination key
    Key - Clicking on this box will allow you to select which key/button to
      use
    Combination Keys - this window will display the sequence of events
      selected by the user
    P# - Selects which player # to use those keys as
    > = Last </> - Enabling this would mean that the event symbol > will
      mean the last left or right direction the user presses in the game and
      the symbol < is the opposite of that direction.  When disabled, > means
      right and < means left.
    Game Specfic (Game Specific) - Enabling this will tell Zsnes to use
      separate Key Combination files for each individual game.
    Clear - Clears the current key combination field
    Add - Adds the key combination fields below as a new entry
    Replace - Copies the contents of the key combination fields below
      to the current highlighted key combination above
    Delete - Deletes the highlighted key combination above
    Events:
      Press+Rel - The key will be pressed and held.  It will be released
        once another key is pressed after any amount of frame or second
        delay.
      Press Only - The key will be pressed and held
      Rel Only - The key will be released if it is Pressed
        by a pressed only event
      Frame Delay - Delays for the specified number of frames
      Second Delay - Delays for the specified number of seconds
      Del - Deletes the event at the end of the Combination Keys list if
        one exists
  Note : A 1 frame delay exists after the combination key list has finished
    processing

  Example Key Combination: (Down / Down+Right / Right / L) :
    Method 1:
      Press+Rel Down / 2 Frame Delay / Press+Rel Down / Press+Rel Right /
      2 Frame Delay / Press+Rel Right / 2 Frame Delay / Press+Rel L
    Method 2:
      Press Only Down / 2 Frame Delay / Press Only Right / 2 Frame Delay /
      Rel Only Down / 2 Frame Delay / Rel Only Right / Press Only L

Movie Options :
  Perform : Allows you to record SNES Movies so that you can play them
            back at a later date either to amuse your friends, torture
            your friends, or whatever.  Just don't play anything in
            front of your enemies since they might break your computer.
  Usage :
     Movies are saved as .ZMV, .ZM1, .ZM2, etc. files.  They should be
     located in the same directory as your save files.  A movie file
     consists of a save state file, saveram data, and the recorded
     controller data.  The initial filesize of a .ZMV file is the
     combination of a .zst and a .srm file (around 300kbytes) and
     it averages around 7kbytes/minute (value varies) or 420kbytes/hour.

     You can record :
       - Standard 1/2 player games
       - 3-4 player Multitap games
       - SNES Mouse games
       - Network/Modem games
     You cannot record :
       - Super Scope Games

  GUI Usage :
     Record - Begins recording the movie file
     Play   - Begins playing the movie file
     Stop   - Stops the movie process
     The numbers at the right side selects which movie file to play/record.

  NOTE : Movies recorded without sound cannot be played when sound
    is enabled and vice versa
  NOTE : Loading another game, loading a state, or resetting the
    game will halt the play/record process
  NOTE : When you play a movie file, the SRAM data becomes invalid and
    ZSNES won't save it until you load a game.  This way, you don't have
    to worry about your save ram when you load up a movie file.

Save Cfg :
  Perform : Saves the configuration files

About :
  Perform : Just displays the version # and the authors of ZSNES

